docs: add Bounty Program Rules (#897)
asyncapi/community: BOUNTY_PROGRAM.md

Reviewer: @derberg are we allowing US embargoed countries to participate in Bounty Program? I do not see any mention of it.

Let's make sure this issue is addressed explicitly, as disclaimer on top.
cc: @aeworxet

Reviewer 2: sure let's have it - although I guess we are anyway limited by Open Collective and bet they would not payout money to embargoed countries, like for example Russia

Reviewer: @aeworxet can you please include this, and @derberg let's merge this PR as early as possible. 
It's being opened from Oct 2023 . ✌️

Author: I don't think we should care about US embargoed countries, because it implies a ban to exchange of goods between the US and some country. Thus, this has nothing to do with the movement of funds to sanctioned jurisdictions, and this is already mentioned in https://github.com/asyncapi/community/pull/897/files#diff-25ecb20a61754c225d6511ca08d7e7c9a14b9ca5a93e89bd42331e51c9ebf26dR135
Also, if a Bounty Program Participant is a citizen of a sanctioned jurisdiction, this doesn't mean that person cannot receive a financial payment to a payee in a non-sanctioned jurisdiction, examples of which already exist in `2023-Q4`.

Reviewer: @aeworxet even if it's mentioned, it's not highlighted, and can be missed out. :| 
Please keep this as highlighted. We already have contributors from Russia as well :), if you don't know.

Reviewer 2: shouldn't we just have a note that links to https://docs.opencollective.foundation/how-it-works/policies/international#international-activity-that-we-cant-enable ?

also, just to make things clear: sanctions are on Russia and Russians living in Russia. Yes we have TSC members and contributors that are citizens of Russia, but if they participate in bounty and Open Collective can pay them, it means sanctions are not violated.

Reviewer: Great let's backlink this.

Author: > if they participate in bounty and Open Collective can pay them, it means sanctions are not violated.

My point exactly, thanks for explicit clarification of Abir's accent in this matter.

I will add the link to https://docs.opencollective.foundation/how-it-works/policies/international#international-activity-that-we-cant-enable, to eliminate possibility of double reading of the Bounty Program policy in the future.

> let's merge this PR as early as possible

Bounty Program Rules are not ready to be merged yet, beacuse during `2023-Q4` (which appeared to be a Beta test of the Bounty Program) still arise unforseen issues, that require immediate resolution in real-time, and that become formalized rules after the resolution. So I estimate this doc to become suitable for merging only after `2023-Q4` is finished, at least.

Reviewer 2: I agree we do not have to merge it yet, as there are some tweaks with each edition. Just @aeworxet please set yourself some "deadline" as in the end even after merging there can be some incoming changes and anyway followup PRs will need to be open.

Reward for Bounty Issue of Complexity Level `Medium` is two hundred US dollars 00 cents (USD 200.00).

Reward for Bounty Issue of Complexity Level `Advanced` is four hundred US dollars 00 cents (USD 400.00).

Approximate quantity of Bounty Issues per calendar quarter varies from thirteen to twenty five (from ((12 * 400) + (1 * 200)) to (25 * 200)).

## Prioritization of participants

Bounty Program Participants are prioritized in the following order:

1. AsyncAPI maintainers (from any repository)

2. Regular contributors (GitHub users who have three or more Pull Requests merged throughout the AsyncAPI GitHub organization)

3. Other (if a GitHub user doesn't fall under the above, the maintainer can determine the criteria i. e. regular volunteers, etc)

## Bounty Issues' numbering

To ensure ease of referencing, searching and automation, strictly defined format of Bounty Issues' numbering is used:

1. In submissions of issues for Bounty Program: `[repo]#[issue]` (`cli#38`)

2. In invoice claiming reward: invoice subject `Bounty [repo]#[issue]` (`Bounty cli#38`), tag `bounty`

## Bounty Issue Submission

> Up to two Bounty Issues per each calendar quarter round of the Bounty Program are submitted in comments of dedicated AsyncAPI GitHub Organization's Discussion by the AsyncAPI Maintainer of the repository where the candidate for the Bounty Issue is residing, containing the following five fields:

Reviewer 2: `up to two` - I don't recall us having such limit in a trial. Why do you think it is needed. Maybe we should add it only if we see some problems in future?

Reviewer 2: or lets say we have limit for 2 but only if we have more than enough issues proposed by maintainers? os if limit is 20 issues, we get 30, then we have limit by 2 for each repo - although it makes stuff complex

Author: There are 63 repositories in AsyncAPI GitHub Organization. If only half of them submits one Medium issue, it will already be 31 issue, which is more than 25 - the maximum of Medium issues allowed for the quarter round of the Bounty Program.
Let us hope only 25% of 63 will participate and submit one issue each. It is 16 issues of unknown complexity, which could easily eat up all quarter budget and even overflow it (16 x 400 = 6400.)
But I went further and capped at two issues per repository 'cause there might be many Medium ones, which are still highly needed.

Author: In case budget is overflown, full list can be randomized through https://www.random.org, to ensure fairness.

Though it's not understandable how to randomize if there are two issues that strictly depend on each other, and one can't be done without the other, thus they should be excluded from randomization by default. And what to do with two last issues that are 400 but overflows by 200, and the next one is strictly 200 but choosing it would break randomization. ¯\\\_(ツ)_/¯

Author: Covered these topics in `Bounty Issue Submission`.

In case the Bounty Program Participant still doesn't provide the PR update after three pings over three weeks, it is assumed that the task cannot be completed within the rest of the time, and the Bounty Program Participant has silently dropped the issue. Ban rules are applied to such Bounty Program Participant, and the Bounty Issue becomes free for assignment to another Bounty Program Participant with a reset timeline.

### Example Bounty Issue Timeline

| Complexity Level | Assignment date (by GitHub) | Start date (by BP rules) | End date (by BP rules) | Draft PR submission | Final PR submission | Final PR merge |
|------------------|-----------------------------|--------------------------|------------------------|---------------------|---------------------|----------------|
| Medium           | 2023-04-27                  | 2023-01-05               | **2023-06-09**             | 2023-05-12          | 2023-05-26          | **2023-06-09**     |
| Advanced         | 2023-04-26                  | 2023-01-05               | **2023-06-23**             | 2023-05-19          | 2023-06-09          | **2023-06-23**     |

## Extension of Bounty Issue's Timeline

> In case of the online absence of the AsyncAPI Maintainer in Slack https://asyncapi.slack.com for a period of more than three working days in a raw, all target dates of the Bounty Issue Timeline are increased by one calendar week per each three working days in a raw of the online absence of the AsyncAPI Maintainer plus one calendar week. 'Plus one calendar week' period is required because after the AsyncAPI Maintainer has regained a confident online presence in Slack https://asyncapi.slack.com, the Bounty Program Participant would have to spend time getting back to the insides of the issue, and nearly unfamiliar at that time her or his own code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In case of the online absence of the AsyncAPI Maintainer in [Slack](https://asyncapi.slack.com) for a period of more than three working days in a raw, all target dates of the Bounty Issue Timeline are increased by one calendar week per each three working days in a raw of the online absence of the AsyncAPI Maintainer plus one calendar week. 'Plus one calendar week' period is required because after the AsyncAPI Maintainer has regained a confident online presence in [Slack](https://asyncapi.slack.com), the Bounty Program Participant would have to spend time getting back to the insides of the issue, and nearly unfamiliar at that time her or his own code.
```

In case of unpredicted force majeure circumstances that could not be foreseen and/or are beyond the control of both the Bounty Program Participant and the AsyncAPI Maintainer, the Bounty Issue Timeline can be increased by either a fixed or indefinite amount of time, with a fair explanation in the Bounty Issue's or Pull Request's comments.

Communication on the necessity of the Bounty Issue Timeline extension should happen prior to any current milestone of the Bounty Issue's Timeline approaching, with a reflection of the start of such communication in the Bounty Issue's or Pull Request's comments, in case a communication platform other than GitHub is used.

## Additional conditions

AsyncAPI Maintainers are allowed to work on Bounty Issues submitted by themselves.

Bounty Program Participant is allowed to choose up to two Bounty Issues of any Complexity Level for simultaneous delivery.

> In case the doc documenting functionality, which is being covered in the Bounty Issue, should be created, edited, or altered simultaneously with the Bounty Issue's resolution, such requirement should be explicitly stated in the Scope during Bounty Issue submission.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In case documentation must be provided together with a solution, which is being covered in the Bounty Issue, should be created, edited, or altered simultaneously with the Bounty Issue's resolution, such requirement should be explicitly stated in the Scope during Bounty Issue submission.
```

wdyt, just `doc documenting functionality` sounds strange

# AsyncAPI Bounty Program

Only individuals and sole proprietors in person (no legal entities or subcontractors) are eligible to participate in the Bounty Program.

> If Bounty Program Participant submits invoice expenses for more than $600 USD per calendar year to a Collective at OpenCollective with a Fiscal Host in the US ([AsyncAPI](https://opencollective.com/asyncapi) fits this description), she or he will be asked to fill out an IRS tax information form, which will be either a `W-8BEN` or a `W-8BEN-E` depending on whether the Bounty Program Participant is an individual or a sole proprietor, supplying a local tax ID.

Reviewer 2: this is not much related to AsyncAPI right? we do not need anything like that

Reviewer 2: I think the most important question is

- `prevents small software companies, freelance agencies, and sole proprietors who operate their small businesses by passing technical tasks to subcontractors from abusing the Bounty Program` - is this a real threat, do you see such problems in other bounty programs?
- `IRS-controlled and cunning schemes with figureheads will not stay anonymous` - are we really going to do this?

I know at least few AsyncAPI maintainers that are affiliated with some company, but they actually work on AsyncAPI after hours. We should not block them from participating.

should that be a "restriction"  or "for your information recommendation"?

Author: If this matter is viewed as non-critical, I'll simply remove these paragraphs, of course.

Reviewer 2: recommendation do not mean not critical.

I think a sentence like: please refrain from participating if your company is paying you to work on AsyncAPI. Oh yeah, and by the way, pay your taxes - would make a lot sense 😄

Reward for Bounty Issue of Complexity Level `Medium` is two hundred US dollars 00 cents (USD 200.00).

Reward for Bounty Issue of Complexity Level `Advanced` is four hundred US dollars 00 cents (USD 400.00).

Approximate quantity of Bounty Issues per calendar quarter varies from thirteen to twenty five (from ((12 * 400) + (1 * 200)) to (25 * 200)).

## Prioritization of participants

Bounty Program Participants are prioritized in the following order:

1. AsyncAPI maintainers (from any repository)

2. Regular contributors (GitHub users who have three or more Pull Requests merged throughout the AsyncAPI GitHub organization)

3. Other (if a GitHub user doesn't fall under the above, the maintainer can determine the criteria i. e. regular volunteers, etc)

## Bounty Issues' numbering

To ensure ease of referencing, searching and automation, strictly defined format of Bounty Issues' numbering is used:

1. In submissions of issues for Bounty Program: `[repo]#[issue]` (`cli#38`)

2. In invoice claiming reward: invoice subject `Bounty [repo]#[issue]` (`Bounty cli#38`), tag `bounty`

## Submission

> Bounty Issues are submitted containing the following five fields:

Reviewer 2: where are they submitted and who can submit them

Reviewer 2: in slack?
only maintainers or anyone as long as maintainer commit to be available for review and agree that given issue can be solved with bounty?

In case the Bounty Program Participant still doesn't provide the PR update after three pings over three weeks, it is assumed that the task cannot be completed within the rest of the time, and the Bounty Program Participant has silently dropped the issue. Ban rules are applied to such Bounty Program Participant, and the Bounty Issue becomes free for assignment to another Bounty Program Participant with a reset timeline.

### Example Bounty Program Timeline

| Complexity Level | Assignment date (by GitHub) | Start date (by BP rules) | End date (by BP rules) | Draft PR submission | Final PR submission | Final PR merge |
|------------------|-----------------------------|--------------------------|------------------------|---------------------|---------------------|----------------|
| Medium           | 2023-04-27                  | 2023-01-05               | **2023-06-09**             | 2023-05-12          | 2023-05-26          | **2023-06-09**     |
| Advanced         | 2023-04-26                  | 2023-01-05               | **2023-06-23**             | 2023-05-19          | 2023-06-09          | **2023-06-23**     |

## Extension of Bounty Issue's Timeline

> In case of absence of the person in charge from the AsyncAPI side, all target dates of the Bounty Issue are increased by duration of absence of the person in charge from the AsyncAPI side + one week. '+ one week' is required because if the person in charge from the AsyncAPI side was absent for a month or two (for any reason), the Bounty Program Participant would then have to spend some time getting back to the insides of the issue and nearly unfamiliar at that time his own code.

Reviewer 2: `from the AsyncAPI side` - or rather repo maintainer?

In case of unpredicted force majeure circumstances which could not be foreseen and/or are beyond control of both contributor and maintainer, the Bounty Issue Timeline can be increased by a fixed or indefinite amount of time, with a fair explanation in Bounty Issue's or Pull Request's comments.

## Constraints

> AsyncAPI maintainers are allowed to work on Bounty Issues submitted by themselves.

Reviewer 2: is it a constrain?

Author: Renamed to `Additional conditions`.

Bounty Program Participant is allowed to choose up to two Bounty Issues of any Complexity Level for simultaneous delivery.

> Doc documenting functionality, which is being covered in the Bounty Issue, should be created, edited, or altered simultaneously with Bounty Issue's resolution, in every situation when it's applicable.

Reviewer 2: doc documenting functionality? what do you mean?

Author: I was referring to [this situation](https://github.com/asyncapi/cli/pull/567) when it came up that I needed to write a doc documenting the functionality I was working on during the resolution of the Bounty Issue, and this situation led to 20% of rewrite and addition.
So I'm trying to say here that the Bounty Program Participants should work on the doc simultaneously with solving the Bounty Issue, but as I understood it should be rephrased.
@all
Are there proposals how?

Reviewer 2: oh ok, I thought that you might refer to it.

the problem is that it is hard to make it a general rule, rather a recommendation. The thing is that every repo is different, there might be different rules. For me docs are always part of `definition of done`. So it is basically a case by case, basically we need to make sure to be clear on the scope of the task, if docs are required

> Abuses of edge cases, like one second behind deadline and similar, are not tolerated.

Reviewer 2: sorry, you mean?

Author: There will certainly be a situation sooner or later when the Bounty Program Participant hits the 'Enter' button at the last second of the deadline, but due to some networking lag, the form was sent with a one-second delay, which made the contributor miss the deadline. Or the contributor was found in a traffic jam. Or something similar highly convincing.
This phrase says that the contributor should not wait until the last moment, so the Bounty Team Member doesn't appear mean and adamant with her/his refusal to appeal. Please, dear Bounty Program Participants, submit your code earlier than right before the deadline.
Rephrase?

Reviewer 2: oh yes, not it is clear, please rephrase.

basically you mean that instead of delivering after deadline, bounty participant needs to discuss with maintainer upfront, any issues and talk about extending deadline

Author: Moved to `Extension of Bounty Issue's Timeline` and rephrased.

## Prioritization of participants

Bounty Program Participants are prioritized in the following order:

1. AsyncAPI Maintainers (from any repository)

2. Regular contributors (GitHub users who have three or more Pull Requests merged throughout the AsyncAPI GitHub Organization)

3. Other (if a GitHub user doesn't fall under the above, the maintainer can determine the criteria i. e. regular volunteers, etc)

## Bounty Issues' numbering

To ensure ease of referencing, searching and automation, strictly defined format of Bounty Issues' numbering is used:

1. In submissions of issues for Bounty Program: `[repo]#[issue]` (`cli#38`)

2. In invoices claiming reward: invoice subject `Bounty [repo]#[issue]` (e. g. `Bounty cli#38`), tag `bounty`

## Clarification on time periods

Due to asynchronous nature of the AsyncAPI project itself and thus its Bounty Program, UTC offset in Bounty Program Issues' starting and ending dates is used. Starting dates should be considered having start at `00:00:00 UTC+12:00`, ending dates should be considered having end at `23:59:59 UTC-12:00`.

## Bounty Issue Submission

> Up to two Bounty Issues per each calendar quarter round of the Bounty Program are submitted in comments of a dedicated AsyncAPI GitHub Organization's Discussion by the AsyncAPI Maintainer of the repository where the candidate for the Bounty Issue is residing, containing the following five fields:

Reviewer 2: "by the AsyncAPI Maintainer of the repository where the candidate for the Bounty Issue is residing"

sorry, not trying to be picky, I'm just not sure what you wanna say

Author: I'm trying to say

"by the AsyncAPI Maintainer of the repository which contains The Issue. Exactly _that_ Issue which is going to be the Bounty Issue candidate, not just any other minor issue."

How to rephrase it?

Author: I'd prefer to keep language of the document persistent, so rephrased original text but kept the language.

```
Bounty Issues are submitted from the eighth to the twenty-first day (inclusive) of March, June,
September and December, in a quantity of no more than two issues per repository, in comments of the
dedicated [AsyncAPI Organization's Discussion](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/discussions),
by the AsyncAPI Maintainer of the given repository, containing the following five fields:
```

> If there are not enough bounty candidates from other repositories, limit of two might be excited ?

I wouldn't like to complicate the algorithm. In fact, in a year the Bounty Program might become so popular that there will be a need even to CUT the cap from two to one issue per repo. So I'd propose to leave the cap of two intact for now and reevaluate it at the end of 2024.

Reviewer 2: the more constraints - `are submitted from the eighth to the twenty-first day` - the worst for you. "Quarter" should be the only limit in this document. Then it gives you a flexibility of improving quarter by quarter - deadlines and other stuff

Reviewer 2: >  In fact, in a year the Bounty Program might become so popular that there will be a need even to CUT the cap from two to one issue per repo

yes, it is possible that it becomes more popular, but some could argue that solution is not to `cut` but rather prioritize which repost are more imported to invest it. Cause I personally prefer to have 4 bounty issues for generator that has huge audience, than 1 in a project with 2 stars and no regular maintenance. But yeah - not something we should worry about now

Author: > the more constraints - `are submitted from the eighth to the twenty-first day` - the worst for you.

Finance-related business activity should have the clearest defined timeline possible. 🤷‍♂️

Reviewer 2: maybe, not sure, as timeline is not money related, only quarter is. Anyway, such timeline can still be done per quarter and do not have to be written in stone in MD file

In case reward for the last Bounty Issue in the resulting randomized list generates excess of the budget, this and all following issues until the end of the resulted randomized list are excluded from participation in the upcoming calendar quarter round of the Bounty Program. Such Bounty Issues are allowed to be submitted during submission of Bounty Issues for the next calendar quarter round of the Bounty Program.

All GitHub issues selected as Bounty Issues get labels on GitHub:

- `bounty`

- `level/medium` or `level/advanced` according to the Complexity Level of the Bounty Issue

- label indicating calendar quarter round of the Bounty Program in which Bounty Issue participates, e. g. `2023-Q4`

After addition of labels GitHub issues selected as Bounty Issues can be viewed with GitHub's search tool using URL formed as:
```
https://github.com/issues?q=is%3Aopen+org%3Aasyncapi+label%3Abounty+label%3A2023-Q4

> ```

Author: Also, Bounty Issues that have no assignee and are free to pick up can be viewed with GitHub's search tool using the URL formed as:
```
https://github.com/issues?q=is%3Aopen+org%3Aasyncapi+label%3Abounty+no%3Aassignee
```

### Example Bounty Issue Timeline

|Complexity Level|Assignment date (by GitHub)|Start date (by BP rules)|End date (by BP rules)|Draft PR submission|Final PR submission|Final PR merge|
|----------------|---------------------------|------------------------|----------------------|-------------------|-------------------|--------------|
|Medium          |2023-04-27                 |2023-05-01              |**2023-06-09**        |2023-05-12         |2023-05-26         |**2023-06-09**|
|Advanced        |2023-04-26                 |2023-05-01              |**2023-06-23**        |2023-05-19         |2023-06-09         |**2023-06-23**|

## Extension of Bounty Issue's Timeline

> In case of the online absence of the AsyncAPI Maintainer in [Slack](https://asyncapi.slack.com) for a period of more than three working days in a raw, all target dates of the Bounty Issue Timeline are increased by one calendar week per each three working days in a raw of the online absence of the AsyncAPI Maintainer plus one calendar week. 'Plus one calendar week' period is required because after the AsyncAPI Maintainer has regained a confident online presence in [Slack](https://asyncapi.slack.com), the Bounty Program Participant would have to spend time getting back to the insides of the issue, and nearly unfamiliar at that time her or his own code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In case of the online absence of the AsyncAPI Maintainer in [Slack](https://asyncapi.slack.com) for a period of more than three working days in a row, all target dates of the Bounty Issue Timeline are increased by one calendar week per each three working days in a row of the online absence of the AsyncAPI Maintainer plus one calendar week. 'Plus one calendar week' period is required because after the AsyncAPI Maintainer has regained a confident online presence in [Slack](https://asyncapi.slack.com), the Bounty Program Participant would have to spend time getting back to the insides of the issue, and nearly unfamiliar at that time of their own code.
```

Author: @AnimeshKumar923, thank you for pointing out the questionable items.
This document, in its core, was intended to support women in AsyncAPI's Bounty Program by intentionally specifically mentioning their pronoun in text and putting it before the males' one as a sign of respect, while simultaneously drawing attention to the fact that women, in accordance with the principle of equal opportunities, receive both privileges of having the possibility to be recognized as qualified developers as well as receive bans for misperformance. And if everything's understandable with the `row`, concerning the second change, I think I ought to summon @Barbanio, so she helps to determine more precisely what pronoun or pronouns should be used in this document when referring to Bounty Program Participants and other people.
At the same time, I would also ask Barbaño for the expert conclusion about the text as a whole, whether it is gender-neutral enough in general, or should any more changes be introduced.

Pronounces are currently mentioned in the following places:
```
her or his own code
she or he will be asked
she or he receives a First Ban
she or he receives a Second Ban
her or his Ban history
they are pinged 
they will be able to
submitted by themselves
request them to perform
check ... themselves
```

Reviewer 4: Hi! Thank you for thinking about pronouns. They are very important for all people to feel included. The most common is to use `they/them/theirs`, even for the singular. This form allows us to include all people, even those who are non-binary 🙂

Reviewer 3: > They are very important for all people to feel included. The most common is to use `they/them/theirs`, even for the singular. This form allows us to include all people, even those who are non-binary 🙂

Hmm...makes sense. That's why I suggested `their` :grin:

Author: Changed to
```
their own code
they will be asked
they receive a First Ban
they receive a Second Ban
their Ban history
they are pinged 
they will be able to
submitted by themselves
request them to perform
check ... themselves
```

### Example Bounty Issue Timeline

|Complexity Level|Assignment date (by GitHub)|Start date (by BP rules)|End date (by BP rules)|Draft PR submission|Final PR submission|Final PR merge|
|----------------|---------------------------|------------------------|----------------------|-------------------|-------------------|--------------|
|Medium          |2023-04-27                 |2023-05-01              |**2023-06-09**        |2023-05-12         |2023-05-26         |**2023-06-09**|
|Advanced        |2023-04-26                 |2023-05-01              |**2023-06-23**        |2023-05-19         |2023-06-09         |**2023-06-23**|

## Extension of Bounty Issue's Timeline

> In case of the online absence of the AsyncAPI Maintainer in [Slack](https://asyncapi.slack.com) for a period of more than three working days in a row, all target dates of the Bounty Issue Timeline are increased by one calendar week per each three working days in a row of the online absence of the AsyncAPI Maintainer plus one calendar week. 'Plus one calendar week' period is required because after the AsyncAPI Maintainer has regained a confident online presence in [Slack](https://asyncapi.slack.com), the Bounty Program Participant would have to spend time getting back to the insides of the issue, and nearly unfamiliar at that time her or his own code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In case of the online absence of the AsyncAPI Maintainer in [Slack](https://asyncapi.slack.com) for a period of more than three working days in a row, all target dates of the Bounty Issue Timeline are increased by one calendar week per each three working days in a row of the online absence of the AsyncAPI Maintainer plus one calendar week. 'Plus one calendar week' period is required because after the AsyncAPI Maintainer has regained a confident online presence in [Slack](https://asyncapi.slack.com), the Bounty Program Participant would have to spend time getting back to the insides of the issue, and nearly unfamiliar at that time of her or his own code.
```
I would suggest here `of` will be written as per the grammar I've learnt :sweat_smile:

Author: Well, this one's quite easy (though 'her or his' were already changed to 'their'.) A simple testing question can be used in this case:
*Whose code is this? It is **their** code.*

Author: `her or his` were already changed to `their`.

# AsyncAPI Bounty Program

## Overview

The AsyncAPI Bounty Program is a specification of the software development process, customized to meet the needs of the AsyncAPI Initiative.

The AsyncAPI Bounty Program operates exclusively on donated funds, does not seek financial profit, uses publicly and freely available tools only, and has as its main purpose rewarding individual contributors to open source software while creating an artificial set of time constraints to make the schedule for achieving programming targets predictable.

Anyone may implement this specification of the software development process with or without any modification in any way they find suitable.

## Budget

The budget of the Bounty Program per calendar year is twenty thousand US dollars and 00 cents (USD 20,000.00), which is five thousand US dollars and 00 cents (USD 5,000.00) per calendar quarter (three calendar months), split as follows:

> - four thousand six hundred US dollars and 00 cents (USD 4,600.00) per calendar quarter as the total amount of reward for completed Bounty Issues

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Four thousand six hundred US dollars and 00 cents (USD 4,600.00) per calendar quarter as the total amount of reward for completed Bounty Issues
```

> - four hundred US dollars and 00 cents (USD 400.00) per calendar quarter as the cost of the Bounty Program Coordination

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Four hundred US dollars and 00 cents (USD 400.00) per calendar quarter as the cost of the Bounty Program Coordination
```

The reward for completion of the Bounty Issue of Complexity Level `Medium` is two hundred US dollars and 00 cents (USD 200.00).

The reward for completion of the Bounty Issue of Complexity Level `Advanced` is four hundred US dollars and 00 cents (USD 400.00).

Approximate maximum quantity of Bounty Issues per calendar quarter round varies from twelve to twenty three (from ((11 * 400) + (1 * 200)) to (23 * 200)).

## Prioritization Of Participants

Bounty Program Participants are prioritized in the following order:

1. AsyncAPI Maintainers (from any repository,) checked at https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/MAINTAINERS.yaml

> 2. Regular contributors (GitHub users who have three or more Pull Requests merged throughout the AsyncAPI GitHub Organization, checked with https://github.com/search?q=is%3Apr+org%3Aasyncapi+is%3Amerged+author%3Agh_username)

Reviewer 6: Would it make sense to limit those merged pull requests to be non-releated with any bounty? Just to ensure contributors come not only for the bounty 🤔

Reviewer 2: > Just to ensure contributors come not only for the bounty

what is wrong with the fact that some contributor come only for the bounty?

Reviewer 6: I think on the conversion rate from bounty contributor to the regular contributor.

Reviewer 2: bounty goal is to get some complex issues done, not waiting for potential volunteer contributor. It is to help maintainers get some financial support or at least get someone else to work on issues they do not have time to work on.

I work on AsyncAPI for money paid by Postman, all my PRs are work I get paid for.

as maintainer of generator, where I regularly push issues - if there is someone who want to come 1nce, 2ce a quarter and solve some generator issues, they know the project, they show PR contribution is smooth and I do not have to mentor - I'm glad to have them, get them paid and get generator regularly improved.

Reviewer 6: Fair enough! will see then.

> # AsyncAPI Bounty Program

Reviewer 2: we're missing a basic one paragraph why we even do it, where the idea came from

Reviewer 2: `The main motivation behind the AsyncAPI Bounty Program was to create a sustainable model for [redistributing sponsor-contributed funds](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/discussions/541) directly to maintainers, ensuring they are financially rewarded for their work. This approach helps reduce the burden of unpaid labor in open source by providing fair compensation for meaningful contributions.`

> ## Overview

Reviewer 2: I'm missing one important note on something I observed.

Maintainers sometimes submit issues in repos where multiple maintainers are active, cross review, and approve - but there seem to be no initial alignment that given issue is needed.

Maintainers should remember that they are one of many active maintainers in a give repo (of course may be that there is a repo where only one maintainer is active - this case is easy) and they should first align that given issue should be bounty issue, that it is important enough to spend budget on it. Like I'm missing a requirement that this is required

> The AsyncAPI Bounty Program is a specification of the software development process, customized to meet the needs of the AsyncAPI Initiative.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The AsyncAPI Bounty Program is a specification of the software development process customized to meet the needs of the AsyncAPI Initiative.
```

The AsyncAPI Bounty Program operates exclusively on donated funds, does not seek financial profit, uses publicly and freely available tools only, and has as its main purpose rewarding individual open source maintainers and contributors of **Middle** and **Senior** professional levels while creating an artificial set of time constraints to make the schedule for achieving assigned targets predictable.

Anyone may implement this specification of the software development process with or without any modification in any way they find suitable.

## Budget

The budget of the Bounty Program per calendar year is twenty thousand US dollars and 00 cents (USD 20,000.00), which is five thousand US dollars and 00 cents (USD 5,000.00) per calendar quarter (three calendar months).

The reward for completion of the Bounty Issue of Complexity Level `Medium` is two hundred US dollars and 00 cents (USD 200.00).

The reward for completion of the Bounty Issue of Complexity Level `Advanced` is four hundred US dollars and 00 cents (USD 400.00).

> Approximate maximum quantity of Bounty Issues per calendar quarter round varies from thirteen to twenty five (from ((12 * 400) + (1 * 200)) to (25 * 200)).

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The approximate maximum quantity of Bounty Issues per calendar quarter round varies from thirteen to twenty-five (from ((12 * 400) + (1 * 200)) to (25 * 200)).
```

## Prioritization Of Participants

Bounty Program Participants are prioritized in the following order:

> 1. AsyncAPI Maintainers (from any repository,) checked at https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/MAINTAINERS.yaml

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
1. AsyncAPI Maintainers (from any repository) checked at https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/MAINTAINERS.yaml
```

> 1. AsyncAPI Maintainers (from any repository) checked at https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/MAINTAINERS.yaml

Reviewer 2: > 1. AsyncAPI Maintainers (from any repository) checked at https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/MAINTAINERS.yaml I'm worried about this message.

maintainer from for example Diff has no idea about Generator, and I do not want to assign an issue to a maintainer of any repo and prefer more Generator-experienced person

2. Regular contributors (GitHub users who have three or more Pull Requests merged throughout the AsyncAPI GitHub Organization, checked with https://github.com/search?q=org%3Aasyncapi+is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+author%3Agh_username).

3. Other (if a GitHub user doesn't fall under the above categories, the AsyncAPI Maintainer can determine the criteria, i.e., regular volunteers, etc.)

Assignment of the Bounty Issue on GitHub to users that fall under the first category can be performed immediately after the addition of the GitHub label `bounty` according to GitHub's timestamp.

Assignment of the Bounty Issue on GitHub to users that fall under the second and third categories is performed not earlier than three calendar days after the addition of the GitHub label `bounty` according to GitHub's timestamp.

## Bounty Issues' Numbering

> To ensure ease of referencing, searching and automation, strictly defined format of Bounty Issues' numbering is used:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
To ensure ease of referencing, searching, and automation, a strictly defined format of Bounty Issues' numbering is used:
```

1. In submissions of GitHub issues for the Bounty Program: `[repo]#[issue]` (`cli#38`)

2. In invoices claiming reward: invoice's subject `Bounty [repo]#[issue]` (e.g., `Bounty cli#38`), tag `bounty` (two rewards can be joined into one sum, in this case a comma and a space must be used in the invoice's subject as a separator for Bounty Issues' numbers, e.g., `Bounty cli#38, cli#361`)

## Clarification Of Time Periods

> Due to asynchronous nature of the AsyncAPI Initiative itself and thus its Bounty Program, UTC offset in Bounty Program Issues' starting and ending dates is used. Starting dates should be considered having start at `00:00:00 UTC+12:00`, ending dates should be considered having end at `23:59:59 UTC-12:00` (inclusive.)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Due to the asynchronous nature of the AsyncAPI Initiative itself and thus its Bounty Program, UTC offset in Bounty Program Issues' starting and ending dates is used. Starting dates should be considered to have started at `00:00:00 UTC+12:00`, and ending dates should be considered to have ended at `23:59:59 UTC-12:00` (inclusive.)
```

## Bounty Issue's Submission

> GitHub issues for participation in the upcoming calendar quarter round of the Bounty Program that are candidates to become Bounty Issues, are submitted during the first and second full (seven-day) calendar weeks of the last month of the current calendar quarter, after the call for such submission, in the comments of the dedicated [AsyncAPI Organization's Discussion](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/discussions), by an AsyncAPI Maintainer who will be responsible for the resolution of the given Bounty Issue from the AsyncAPI's side, containing the following five fields:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
GitHub issues for participation in the upcoming calendar quarter round of the Bounty Program that are candidates to become Bounty Issues are submitted during the first and second full (seven-day) calendar weeks of the last month of the current calendar quarter after the call for such submission, in the comments of the dedicated [AsyncAPI Organization's Discussion](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/discussions), by an AsyncAPI Maintainer who will be responsible for the resolution of the given Bounty Issue from the AsyncAPI's side, containing the following five fields:
```

1. Number: `cli#361`

2. Full GitHub link: https://github.com/asyncapi/cli/issues/361

3. Scope: `We need to extend the functionality of '--version' flag in AsyncAPI CLI to include info about versions of other AsyncAPI libraries used in the project`

4. Complexity Level: `Medium` | `Advanced`

5. Type: `Coding` | `DevOps` | `Docs` | `Design`

Submitted GitHub issues undergo public pre-moderation by the AsyncAPI Community to ensure adherence to the values of the AsyncAPI Initiative. In case a GitHub issue does not pass pre-moderation, it is not accepted for participation in the upcoming calendar quarter round of the Bounty Program.

> In case documentation must be provided together with solution requested in the Bounty Issue, such requirement should be explicitly stated in the Scope.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
In case documentation must be provided together with the solution requested in the Bounty Issue, such requirement should be explicitly stated in the Scope.
```

In case two Bounty Issues are inextricably linked and cannot be completed separately from each other, such connection must be explicitly stated in the Scope.

> In case the total reward for all submitted Bounty Issues exceeds the budget allocated for the upcoming calendar quarter round of the Bounty Program, full list of submitted Bounty Issues undergoes randomization using the randomization service provided by [random.org](https://random.org). Inextricably linked Bounty Issues in this case get joined into one generic issue (e.g., `cli#361-cli#38`) for the sake of randomization. After randomization the resulted randomized list is crawled from the beginning until total reward for the Bounty Issues reaches the amount of the budget allocated for the upcoming calendar quarter round of the Bounty Program.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
In case the total reward for all submitted Bounty Issues exceeds the budget allocated for the upcoming calendar quarter round of the Bounty Program, a full list of submitted Bounty Issues undergoes randomization using the randomization service provided by [random.org](https://random.org). Inextricably linked Bounty Issues, in this case, get joined into one generic issue (e.g., `cli#361-cli#38`) for the sake of randomization. After randomization, the resulting randomized list is crawled from the beginning until the total reward for the Bounty Issues reaches the amount of the budget allocated for the upcoming calendar quarter round of the Bounty Program.
```

> In case reward for the last Bounty Issue in the resulted randomized list generates excess of the budget, this and all following issues until the end of the resulted randomized list are excluded from participation in the upcoming calendar quarter round of the Bounty Program. Such Bounty Issues are allowed to be submitted during submission of Bounty Issues for the next calendar quarter round of the Bounty Program.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
In case the reward for the last Bounty Issue in the resulted randomized list generates an excess of the budget, this and all following issues until the end of the resulted randomized list are excluded from participation in the upcoming calendar quarter round of the Bounty Program. Such Bounty Issues are allowed to be submitted during the submission of Bounty Issues for the next calendar quarter round of the Bounty Program.
```

All GitHub issues selected as Bounty Issues get labels on GitHub:

- GitHub label `bounty`

- text label indicating calendar quarter round of the Bounty Program in which Bounty Issue participates (e.g., `bounty/2024-Q3`)

- text labels `bounty/medium` | `bounty/advanced` according to the Complexity Level of the Bounty Issue

- text labels `bounty/coding` | `bounty/devops` | `bounty/docs` | `bounty/design` according to the Type of the Bounty Issue

GitHub issues selected as Bounty Issues can be viewed with GitHub's Project View tool at https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/projects/36
This project view is also visible to non-logged-in/non-GitHub users.

## Bounty Issue's Timeline

> Start date in Bounty Program is counted from Monday of the next week when assignment of the Bounty Issue on GitHub happened.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The start date in the Bounty Program is counted from Monday of the following week when the Bounty Issue on GitHub was assigned.
```

Author: Left mainly intact because the assignment on GitHub is an 'event' that 'happened' and triggered a set of further steps.

The conditions of the Bounty Program become mandatory for the user after the 'event' `assignment of the Bounty Issue on GitHub` 'happened'.

The event can also 'occur' but that looks worse.

> In case assignment of the Bounty Issue on GitHub happened during third or fourth full (seven-day) calendar week of the last month of the calendar quarter, start date in Bounty Program is counted from the first Monday of the new calendar quarter round.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
In case the Bounty Issue on GitHub was assigned during the third or fourth full (seven-day) calendar week of the last month of the calendar quarter, the start date in the Bounty Program is counted from the first Monday of the new calendar quarter round.
```

For Bounty Issues of Complexity Level `Medium`:

- Draft Pull Request, [linked to the Bounty Issue using a keyword](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue) if applicable, must be submitted no later than Sunday of the second week from the start date and updated every week no later than Sunday, until submission of Final Pull Request and the start of its merging process

> - Final Pull Request must be submitted, and its merging process started no later than Sunday of the fourth week from the start date, with the merging process' successful ending no later than Sunday of the sixth week from the start date

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- Final Pull Request must be submitted, and its merging process must start no later than Sunday of the fourth week from the start date, with the merging process' successful ending no later than Sunday of the sixth week from the start date
```

- Final Pull Request must be submitted, and its merging process started no later than Sunday of the sixth week from the start date, with the merging process' successful ending no later than Sunday of the eighth week from the start date

Updates to the Draft Pull Request are determined by:

- activity in the `Commits` section of the Draft Pull Request

- activity of the automated code analysis service that runs on every commit (`SonarCloud`)

If no Pull Request is involved, updates on the Bounty Issue are determined by:

- activity in the Bounty Issue's comments

In case the Bounty Program Participant has not provided a weekly update to the Draft Pull Request and/or on the Bounty Issue (on Monday, the last activity of any of the abovementioned types was four or more calendar days before, e.g., on `2024-05-20`, the last activity of any type was on `2024-05-16` or earlier,) they are pinged as a reminder to do so.

> In case the Bounty Program Participant has not provided an update to the Draft Pull Request and/or on the Bounty Issue after two pings over two consecutive Mondays, on the third consecutive Monday it is assumed that the task cannot be completed within the rest of the time, and the Bounty Program Participant has silently dropped the Bounty Issue. Suspension rules are applied to such Bounty Program Participants, and the End Of Life rules to such Bounty Issues.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
In case the Bounty Program Participant has not provided an update to the Draft Pull Request and/or on the Bounty Issue after two pings over two consecutive Mondays, on the third consecutive Monday, it is assumed that the task cannot be completed within the rest of the time. The Bounty Program Participant has silently dropped the Bounty Issue. Suspension rules are applied to such Bounty Program Participants, and the End Of Life rules are applied to such Bounty Issues.
```

In case the Bounty Program Participant has not provided the critical fixes required to make the Final Pull Request merging possible during the last week of the Timeline, they are pinged on Thursday, four days before the last day of the Timeline, to do so.

> In case the Bounty Program Participant has not provided critical fixes during the next four days, on Monday, after the last day of the Bounty Issues' Timeline, it is considered that the Bounty Program Participant did not complete the Bounty Issue within the assigned Timeline due to their own misperformance. Suspension rules are applied to such Bounty Program Participants, and the End Of Life rules to such Bounty Issues.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
In case the Bounty Program Participant has not provided critical fixes during the next four days, on Monday, after the last day of the Bounty Issues' Timeline, it is considered that the Bounty Program Participant did not complete the Bounty Issue within the assigned Timeline due to their own misperformance. Suspension rules are applied to such Bounty Program Participants and the End Of Life rules to such Bounty Issues.
```

In case of unpredicted [force majeure](https://iccwbo.org/wp-content/uploads/sites/3/2020/03/icc-forcemajeure-hardship-clauses-march2020.pdf) and/or circumstances that could not be foreseen and/or that are beyond the control of both the Bounty Program Participant and the AsyncAPI Maintainer, the Bounty Issue Timeline can be extended by a fixed or indefinite amount of time, with a fair explanation provided in the Bounty Issue's or Pull Request's comments.

Communication on the necessity of the Bounty Issue Timeline extension should happen prior to any current milestone of the Bounty Issue's Timeline approaching, with a reflection of the start of such communication in the Bounty Issue's or Pull Request's comments, in case a communication platform other than GitHub is used.

## Bounty Issue's Reclassification

> Upon request of the AsyncAPI Maintainer who is responsible for the resolution of the given Bounty Issue from the AsyncAPI's side in the Bounty Issue's comments in the process of resolution, the Complexity Level of the Bounty Issue can be reclassified in any direction (both lowered to `Medium` and heightened to `Advanced`,) with corresponding changes to the Bounty Issue's Timeline in case of a need.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Upon request of the AsyncAPI Maintainer, who is responsible for the resolution of the given Bounty Issue from the AsyncAPI's side in the Bounty Issue's comments in the process of resolution, the Complexity Level of the Bounty Issue can be reclassified in any direction (both lowered to `Medium` and heightened to `Advanced`), with corresponding changes to the Bounty Issue's Timeline in case of a need.
```

Reclassified Bounty Issue gets one of historical text labels `bounty/downgraded` or `bounty/upgraded` accordingly.

## Bounty Issue's Completion

To avoid half-merges, unmet dependencies on the completion of other (inextricably linked) issues, waiting for merges of other separate PRs that provide critically important functionality for the given task, etc., and to avoid situations where AsyncAPI has already acquired an obligation to pay but factually the conditions of the Bounty Issue completion are not met yet, a system of double control with separation of concerns is exercised on the Bounty Issues:

> - After Bounty Issue's closure on GitHub, the AsyncAPI Maintainer, who was responsible for the resolution of the given Bounty Issue from the AsyncAPI's side, confirms the Bounty Issue's technical resolution by posting a separate confirming comment in this Bounty Issue's comments (followed by another confirming comment from the AsyncAPI Maintainer of this specific repository, if these were two different persons.)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- After the Bounty Issue's closure on GitHub, the AsyncAPI Maintainer, who was responsible for the resolution of the given Bounty Issue from the AsyncAPI's side, confirmed the Bounty Issue's technical resolution by posting a separate comment in this Bounty Issue's comments (followed by another confirming comment from the AsyncAPI Maintainer of this specific repository, if these were two different persons.)
```

Author: Only added 'After `the` Bounty Issue' because what he does is 'he confirms' by posting not just any comment, but a separate 'explicitly confirming' comment.

- The Bounty Program Participant proceeds with the process of claiming the reward only after the second comment from the Bounty Program Coordinator, confirming the Bounty Issue completion and readiness to perform the payout.

## Bounty Issue's End Of Life

> GitHub issue participates in the Bounty Program and is considered a Bounty Issue starting from the second of addition of the GitHub label `bounty` according to GitHub's timestamp until the Bounty Issue's End Of Life, which starts after the last second of the last day of the first calendar month since the start of the calendar quarter round of the Bounty Program it was introduced in, inclusive.

Author: Here, 'second' is used in the sense of '00:00:01', not as '2nd'.

In case a Bounty Issue gets an assignee before the End Of Life and continues to have an assignee after the End Of Life, it continues to be a Bounty Issue until completion.

> In case a Bounty Issue does not get an assignee before the End Of Life, after reaching End Of Life it gets the historical text label `bounty/unpicked` and is considered the one that reached End Of Life.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
In case a Bounty Issue does not get an assignee before the End Of Life, after reaching End Of Life, it gets the historical text label `bounty/unpicked` and is considered the one that reached End Of Life.
```

> In case a Bounty Issue gets an assignee before the End Of Life and is dropped after the End Of Life, it gets the historical text label `bounty/dropped` and is considered the one that reached End Of Life.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
In case a Bounty Issue gets an assignee before the End Of Life and is dropped after the End Of Life, it gets the historical text label `bounty/dropped` and is considered the one that reached the End Of Life.
```

> In case a Bounty Issue gets an assignee before the End Of Life and does not get completed within the assigned Timeline after the End Of Life due to Bounty Program Participant's misperformance, it gets the historical text label `bounty/misperformed` and is considered the one that reached End Of Life.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
In case a Bounty Issue gets an assignee before the End Of Life and does not get completed within the assigned Timeline after the End Of Life due to the Bounty Program Participant's misperformance, it gets the historical text label `bounty/misperformed` and is considered the one that reached End Of Life.
```

> In case a Bounty Issue gets an assignee before the End Of Life and during its technical resolution it becomes clear that this Bounty Issue cannot be completed due to unpredicted [force majeure](https://iccwbo.org/wp-content/uploads/sites/3/2020/03/icc-forcemajeure-hardship-clauses-march2020.pdf) and/or circumstances that could not be foreseen and/or that are beyond the control of both the Bounty Program Participant and the AsyncAPI Maintainer, it gets the historical text label `bounty/canceled` and is considered the one that reached End Of Life.

Author: Added a second comma for clarity: `and, during its technical resolution, it`.

> Bounty Issue that reached End Of Life gets the historical text label `bounty/eol`, reward for this Bounty Issue gets excluded from the budget allocated for the corresponding calendar quarter round of the Bounty Program, and this Bounty Issue becomes a regular GitHub issue, which can be submitted again as a Bounty Issue Candidate.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Bounty Issue that reached End Of Life gets the historical text label `bounty/eol`, the reward for this Bounty Issue gets excluded from the budget allocated for the corresponding calendar quarter round of the Bounty Program, and this Bounty Issue becomes a regular GitHub issue, which can be submitted again as a Bounty Issue Candidate.
```

> Dropped Bounty Issue can not be assigned again to the same Bounty Program Participant who dropped it in the next calendar quarter rounds of the Bounty Program.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
A dropped Bounty Issue can not be assigned again to the same Bounty Program Participant who dropped it in the next calendar quarter rounds of the Bounty Program.
```

All Bounty Program-related activities of the Bounty Program Participants that fall under the second and third categories (expression of a desire to work on a Bounty Issue, explanation of the presumed approach to the resolution of the Bounty Issue, etc.) are taken into consideration only if they occurred after the addition of the GitHub label `bounty` to the GitHub issue.

GitHub label `bounty` has hex code `#0E8A16`.

## Claiming The Reward

Claiming the reward for the completed Bounty Issue is done via the submission of an invoice at the dedicated [AsyncAPI Bounty Program 2025 page on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/asyncapi/projects/asyncapi-bounty-program) (button '`ACTIONS`', dropdown option '`Submit expense`').

**Before the submission of the invoice, the Bounty Program Participant MUST ensure that the account they will use for the payout is VERIFIED by their financial institution, fully operational, and able to receive payments.**

Requirements for the invoice:

> - Make sure that your `Full Name` on GitHub, as well as `Legal Name` and `Full name of the account holder` on the invoice, **are the same** and are YOUR REAL LEGAL NAME according to the passport/ID (on Open Collective, nicknames are allowed only in `Settings / Public profile / Display name`, and it is **this** name that will be displayed publicly throughout all https://opencollective.com, if you have privacy concerns)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- Make sure that your `Full Name` on GitHub, as well as `Legal Name` and `Full name of the account holder` on the invoice, **are the same** and are YOUR REAL LEGAL NAME according to the passport/ID (on Open Collective, nicknames are allowed only in `Settings / Public profile / Display name`, and it is **this** name that will be displayed publicly throughout all https://opencollective.com if you have privacy concerns)
```

- **Expense title**: '`Bounty [repo]#[issue]`' (e.g., '`Bounty cli#38`' or '`Bounty cli#38, cli#361`' in case of two rewards being joined into one sum)

- **Tag**: '`bounty`'

> - **Set invoice details / Description**: mention full URL of the GitHub issue which served as the Bounty Issue

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- **Set invoice details / Description**: mention the full URL of the GitHub issue which served as the Bounty Issue
```

Also, note that if a Bounty Program Participant submits invoice expenses for more than six hundred US dollars and 00 cents (USD 600.00) per calendar year to a Collective at Open Collective with a Fiscal Host in the US (AsyncAPI fits this description,) they will be asked to fill out an IRS tax information form, which will be either a `W-8BEN` or a `W-8BEN-E` depending on whether the Bounty Program Participant has the legal status of an individual or of a sole proprietor, **supplying a local Tax ID**, **regardless** of their US citizenship status.

At the time of writing (2023-10-01) Open Collective supports `ACH`, `International SWIFT through Wise` (limitations of financial technology company 'Wise' are applied) and `PayPal` as automated payout methods. In rare cases (once per calendar year) Bounty Program Participant in personal communication with Open Collective can request them to perform a payout using a custom payment method to a non-sanctioned jurisdiction.

## Suspension

> Each new Bounty Program Participant starts participation in the Bounty Program with the quantity of Suspensions equal to zero.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Each new Bounty Program Participant starts participation in the Bounty Program with a quantity of Suspensions equal to zero.
```

# AsyncAPI Bounty Program

The AsyncAPI Bounty Program is a specification of the software development process, customized to meet the needs of the AsyncAPI Initiative.

The AsyncAPI Bounty Program operates exclusively on donated funds, does not seek financial profit, uses publicly and freely available tools only, and has as its main purpose rewarding contributors to open source software while creating an artificial set of time constraints to make the schedule for achieving programming targets predictable.

Anyone may implement this specification of the software development process with or without any modification in any way they find suitable.

## Budget

The budget of the Bounty Program per calendar year is twenty thousand US dollars and 00 cents (USD 20,000.00), which is five thousand US dollars and 00 cents (USD 5,000.00) per calendar quarter (three calendar months), split as follows:

- four thousand six hundred US dollars and 00 cents (USD 4,600.00) per calendar quarter as the total amount of reward for Bounty Issues

> - four hundred US dollars and 00 cents (USD 400.00) per calendar quarter as the cost of the Bounty Program Coordination

Reviewer 2: It's something I proposed in 2024 budget -> https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/discussions/1017

Applies to @aeworxet that runs the program. Basically last editions showed how much work it is, and requires to be up to date with the project, regular communication + some possible automation in future. At least we can somehow give back and pay every Q an equivalent of "bounty advanced issue" to program owner.

> - four hundred US dollars and 00 cents (USD 400.00) per calendar quarter as the cost of the Bounty Program Coordination

Reviewer: Awesome!! @derberg. 👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻
This is definitely a good way to give back to the ones who spend their bandwidth.
